Is it possible to survive the attack of a roaring lion?
Well now I did some just quick checking
on various wildlife websites.
And here's what they say.
Basically, they all give the same advice
if you're being attacked by a lion.
They say hold your ground, never run or turn back.
In fact, one website says a lion can run 50 miles per hour.
So stand still.
If you run, you will only die tired.
Well, that's true.
First Peter chapter five and verse nine
gives us exactly the same advice.
It says take your stand against him.
Well, in this case, not against a literal lion,
but against that roaring lion Satan the devil
who is seeking to devour every single one of us.
Our ability to stand firm when facing this lion,
to be able to oppose him, to refuse to be intimidated by him,
to refuse to run away or turn back,
requires what the Apostle Peter next mentions there
in verse nine in Brother Crane,
so nicely covered in his comment.
We have to take our stand against him,
firm in the faith.
To be successful, we must have complete trust
and complete confidence in Jehovah.
Well, now in that regard, let's look at an example
of someone in Bible times who had
that kind of confidence in Jehovah.
This is in the days of King Jehashafat
when Judah was threatened by the combined forces
of Moab, Ammon, and the inhabitants
of the mountainous region of Seer.
Now, let's begin by opening our Bibles
and reading 2 Chronicles chapter 20 and verse 12.
So here, Jehashafat is praying to Jehovah.
He's pouring out his heart to him
and see what he says.
Oh, our God, will you not execute judgment on them
for we are powerless before this large crowd
that is coming against us,
and we do not know what we should do,
but our eyes are toward you.
Well, Jehashafat was facing the lion.
He said to Jehovah, we don't know what to do,
but Jehashafat had complete and total trust.
He had firm faith in Jehovah.
Well, what did Jehovah tell Jehashafat to do?
See verse 17.
You will not need to fight this battle.
Take your position.
Does that sound familiar?
Take your position, stand still,
and see the salvation of Jehovah in your behalf.
Oh, Judah and Jerusalem do not be afraid or be terrified.
Tomorrow, go out against them,
and Jehovah will be with you.
Well, what did Jehovah tell them to do?
He said, take a position,
in opposition to that military force, stand firm,
refuse to run away,
and see the salvation that will come from Jehovah.
Well, in order to do that,
Jehashafat and the people with him
would need to have strong, firm, solid faith.
Well, not to help the people,
look at what Jehashafat said to them
as they were getting ready for this battle in verse 20.
You see just about middle of the verse.
It says, Jehashafat stood up and said,
listen to me, Oh, Judah,
and you inhabitants of Jerusalem.
Put faith in Jehovah your God
so that you may be able to stand firm.
Put faith in his prophets,
and you will be successful.
Well, that's exactly what happened.
See, with that kind of confidence in Jehovah,
with that firm trust in him,
with that standing firm, what did Jehovah do?
Well, according to verses 22 and 23,
you'll remember what happened.
The men of Ammon, Moab,
and the inhabitants of the mountainous region of Seer,
they all went to striking down one another.
And in verse 23 says,
and the Ammonites and the Moabites
turned against the inhabitants of the mountainous region
of Seer to destroy and annihilate them.
And when they finished with the inhabitants of Seer,
they helped to destroy one another.
Well, Jehovah had rewarded their firm faith in him.
The weapons that had been formed against Jehashafat
and his people had no success.
Well, sometimes we think, of course,
that these kinds of situations only happened in Bible times,
but it's amazing to see how our brothers
in our modern day have had that same kind of faith
and have stood firm against the lion.
Here's just a couple of experiences
that really touch my heart.
Here's one about a brother named Pavel from Russia.
In 1958, Pavel was arrested for religious activities.
Accompanying me to the train, he says,
the officer with me said,
look at your wife for the last time
because you will never see her again while there's the lion.
I spent six months in solitary confinement before my trial.
During interrogations, the investigators did everything
to undermine my faith.
Sometimes violence was used.
I begged Jehovah to give me the strength to stay firm,
but now look what happened.
During a routine interrogation,
the investigator called me into his study
and he said, now we will show you what your organization
is doing, then you can see if it is God's work or not.
Looking at me intently, he continued.
This year, your convention in New York
was attended by 253,000 people in two stadiums.
The convention lasted eight days.
The investigators screwed the table with photographs.
In one of them, I saw happy delegates
and colorful native dress embracing one another.
Another photo showed Brother Nor, giving a talk
and yet others showed the baptism.
The investigator could not even imagine
what I was feeling at that moment.
I felt that I was attending the convention
without ever having leaving the prison.
I felt new strength flooding into me.
It was just what I needed.
And Jehovah generously blessed me in a special way.
I was ready to endure further.
Isn't that amazing?
Here's another similar experience.
1960, also in Russia, a large publicized trial
of Jehovah's Witnesses, about 300 persons
were present in the courtroom, including many
of our brothers and sisters.
Well, as the evidence against the brothers,
the prosecutor decided to present a letter
from Nathan H. Nor.
One of the brothers who attended the trial said this.
The prosecutor loudly began to read a letter
that had been intercepted by the KGB from Brother Nor
to the brothers in the Soviet Union.
For all of us witnesses present in the hall,
it was a wonderful gift from Jehovah.
The letter warmed our hearts.
We heard wise counsel from the Bible
and encouragement to serve our fellow believers lovingly
and to stay faithful even under trials.
The prosecutor read the letter from beginning
to the very end.
We listened with wrapped attention.
It seemed to us that we were attending a convention.
When our brothers, what additional lessons
do we learn from these two experiences?
When we stand our ground against Satan, firm in the faith,
then Jehovah will do just what he promised
in 1 Peter chapter 5 and verse 10.
Do you see what it says there?
But after you have suffered a little while,
the God of all undeserved kindness
who called you to his everlasting glory and union with Christ
will himself finish your training.
He will make you firm, he will make you strong,
he will firmly ground you.
So, brothers, can we survive the attack
of a roaring lion?
Absolutely.
With firm faith, let's stand fast
and see the salvation from Jehovah.